everyone welcome to video number two in
my eight part series
about effective communication tips for
leaders in the first video i talked
about why
on earth i'm doing this eight part
series in the first place
and i shared a pretty daunting statistic
which is more than 90 percent of
employees say that their leaders lack
communication skills
in this video i'm giving you the first
tangible tip
that you can use as a leader especially
if you have
several staff members as part of your
company
and the great thing about this first tip
is that you can do so
in person or virtually this tip is
called
the huddle so what is the huddle well i
was introduced to this concept
when i joined my current position with
re max of western canada
and every single week we get together
obviously before kobit this was done in
person
but now we are still able to do so on a
zoom
call virtually and the whole purpose of
this
weekly meeting is to answer a random
question the question may be
what was your favorite movie as a child
or what is your favorite restaurant in
the city to eat at
or what is one place you've always
wanted to travel but never been to
you might be thinking these questions
aren't really related to the job or work
but that is the beauty of this exercise
because it allows employees
to step away from the day-to-day rigor
of their jobs and
and start to think outside the box and
you learn an incredible amount
about the people you work with when you
talk about topics
like this many people are passionate
about these types of subjects and really
will go into depth of
why they love a certain restaurant or
why a movie was
always their favorite as a child and
every week you start to learn more and
more
about the people that you work alongside
now in this video i am going to give you
a tip a bonus tip of how to level up
because i believe the huddle is a great
thing to introduce to your company
if you're not already doing something
like that
but this is a bonus tip and this came
through a conversation i had
with a gentleman named johnny cupcakes
johnny cupcakes is a bit of a bizarre
name his actual name
is johnny earl but johnny earl branded
to johnny cupcakes
as part of what he calls a t-shirt
bakery and what a t-shirt bakery is is
it's basically a practical joke on
people who think they're entering a
bakery
and there's the smell of frosting and
there are fridges and ovens
but when you open those there are only
t-shirts and they don't sell
any baked goods and while they maybe
frustrate hungry customers they give
everyone who walks
through those doors a customer
experience and a story to
tell and through this they have grown a
cult-like
following of people who love their brand
when i interviewed johnny he told me
that
he and his company was doing something
similar regular meetings with his staff
members where they would answer
questions
and in one of these particular meetings
he asked all of the staff
what their favorite christmas gift was
growing up
just answering that question excited the
staff they thought about all of those
nostalgic gifts that they got as a child
and as each person answered you could
tell that it was tapping in
to really fond childhood memories but
what they didn't realize was that their
boss
johnny was actually taking note of
all of their answers so this happened in
july
and over the next several months johnny
sourced
all of those gifts all of those favorite
childhood gifts he found them on
ebay sometimes through garage sales
all of these random places he put in a
lot of effort
he found every single gift and then that
year at christmas
at the staff christmas party he gifted
all of his staff
with their favorite nostalgic gift some
of his employees
cried i mean here was a boss who not
only
took the time to listen but actually
went
and delivered actually went and found
those gifts
totally unexpected and i shared a stat
earlier in this video that 90 percent of
employees
say that their leaders lack
communication skills
how many of johnny's employees on that
day do you think
said he lacked communication skills
my guess is zero because he showed that
not only is he a boss that listens
but he's a boss that genuinely cares
about the happiness of his employees
now i believe this is something you can
do with the version of the huddle
one week you could ask what everyone's
favorite drink is to have on a summer
patio
and then arrange a summer event where
you've gone out and sourced all of those
favorite drinks for people
something like that is pretty simple to
do it takes a bit extra work
but the fact that you listen the fact
that you remembered and that it was an
unexpected surprise
is going to make you that much more of
an effective leader
and really a more effective communicator
as well
thank you so much for watching this the
second video in this eight part
series like i say there are going to be
six more coming your way
if you liked this video and this content
overall consider
subscribing to my channel otherwise i
hope you have an amazing day